1. Added support for playing the game at higher resolutions. The resolution settings are read from REDALERT.INI's [Options] section. The following two keywords are read:
	Width=
	Height=
	
Hires improvements over hifi's original code for this:
	-The invisible Ant Missions stereo and Westwood Logo credits selection areas are now adjusted for hi-res, meaning if you click their area on the main menu graphics they'll be activated, like they should.
	-Fixes for the border around the main menu graphics glitching after playing a game, graphical glitching when showing the "restate briefing" screen and some other graphical glitches. Thanks to Nyerguds for practically writing this for me!
	- If a TITLE.PCX is found that doesn't have the same dimensions as the original TITLE.PCX file, it will be displayed on the screen in the top left, this allows people to create their own custom main menu title graphics and have them work with hi-res.
	- The timer tab for maps that use them (e.g. the second Allies mission) has its width adjusted.
	- The expansion missions dialogs are now adjusted for hires, instead of appearing in the top left of the screen.
	- Screenshake should be adjusted for high res now. (Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)
	- The "Mission Accomplished", "Mission Failed" and "The Game is a Draw" red text now have their height and width adjusted for high res (Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)
	- The score screen is now fully displayed in the top left, instead of showing the score background in the middle
	- Fixed the power indicator displaying glitched when there's no power and in certain other scenarios
	- Added extended sidebar (using graphics and memory addresses taken from Arda, by AlexB)
	- 640x480 does not show black bars on the top and bottom of the screen anymore.
	- You no longer need to scroll the map and open the options menu to fix glitching with maps smaller than your resolution.

The original code for this high resolution feature was written by hifi.

4. VQA640 files are now centered, only the intro sequence with a Longbow helicopter hitting a Mammoth Tank is a VQA640 file though.

5. Fixed a crash with fences placed on the northern border of the map that are destroyed. (from hifi's p-series, thanks to AlexB)

6. No-CD mode can be enabled/disabled with the NoCD= (yes/no) keyword under the [Options] section of REDALERT.INI. (from hifi's p-series)

7. The Counterstrike expansion can be enabled/disabled with the CounterstrikeEnabled= (yes/no) keyword under the [Options] section of REDALERT.INI. Likewise there's a AftermathEnabled= (yes/no) keyword to enable/disable the Aftermath expansion.

8. A crash relating to the a max limit being reached (e.g. that of airplanes) has been fixed. (from hifi's p-series). When a max unit limit has been reached the game will play the "unable to build more sound".

9. FunkyFr3sh's OOS-FIX.INI file will be loaded (if it's found) while still being compatible online with 3.03 players not using this fix. This fix prevents desyncing after playing certain (most?) modded maps online and then playing another map. It also fixes the cause of the desync itself, namely that after playing certain modded maps/missions certain memory used by the game for its settings (e.g. unit cost) won't be reset when playing a normal map/mission. This has to do with some really terrible programming but is a bit technical to explain. Suffice to say this fixes things like the Mobile Radar Jammer gaining a Tesla weapon after playing certain Counterstrike expansion missions, etc.

10. Messages sent by other players during a match now appear for 15 seconds in the top left corner now, instead of the previous 9 seconds.

11. Added an REDALERT.INI keyword ShowAllMusic= (yes/no) under the [Options] section to enable/disable showing ALL the game's music, normally the game only shows some music depending on what side you're playing as. With this option enabled it always shows all music except for the score, map and main menu music.

12. Capture the flag has been enabled for skirmish. Westwood added specific checks to disable ths game mode for skirmish, but I don't know why. Be warned.

13. All multiplayer settings are now configurable, inside redalert.ini add:
	[MultiplayerDefaults]
	Money=10000
	ShroudRegrows=false
	CaptureTheFlag=false
	Crates=false
	Bases=true
	OreRegenerates=true
	UnitCount=0
	TechLevel=10
	AIDifficulty=2 ; 0 = easy, 1 = Medium, 2 = Hard
	AIPlayers=1

Note the following:
	-You can start a skirmish game with no AI players by setting AIPlayers to 0, note that after playing a game like this the 
		game will automatically set the AI players slider to 1.
	- You can start a game with a max of 2.7 billion credits, this works online too even if other players don't run my patch.
	- If UnitCount multiplied by players is too high, the game will crash.
	- Setting AIPlayers to higher than 7 causes the game to freeze.

15. Extra songs can be added to the game by adding them to a MUSIC.INI control file, it should look like:
	; music.ini file for extra music addon
	[Fullnames]
	1=The Second Hand (Retaliation)
	[Filenames]
	1=2nd_hand.AUD
	[Tracklength]
	1=283 ; in seconds
	
Etc for every new song. Make sure there's an empty (blank) line at the end of the file or the last entry won't be read properly.

16. The game now supports loading The Lost Files movies compiled by Nyerguds.

17. The game will now load and play sizzle3.vqa, sizzle4.vqa and introx.vqa in the sneak preview menu if found.

18. Playing the ENGLISH.VQA intro is now optional. a new REDALERT.INI boolean option PlayEnglishIntro= under the "Options" section controls this.

19. Fixed the in-game displayed name of various songs, Twin Cannon misnamed as "Twin" and most Counterstrike songs.

20. Fix for a rare issue where the game would report there is barely any free disk space left when there's plenty. The game now always thinks there is enough free disk space left.

21. Greece, Spain and Turkey are now all selectable in multiplayer.

22. Fix added for cnc-ddraw crash in the credits slide show screen once the first text reaches the top of the screen. This fix causes slight graphical glitching sadly and as a result I removed the loading of background images for the credits screen.

23. New RULES.INI AftermathFastBuildSpeed= yes/no keyword under the section [Aftermath], with this enabled there won't be a cap for build speed increase when you buy additional production facilities of the same type (e.g. more than two Barracks)and the Aftrmath expansion is installed. If you want to use this online you need to play versus other players running this patch and the "Force AM fast build speed" RULES.INI file (this is also available as a RedAlertConfig.exe option).

24: New command-line arguments (Thanks to CCHyper):
-ANTMISSIONS: Starts the hidden ant missions campaign.
-SKIRMISH: Loads the skirmish menu.
-LAN: Loads the LAN menu.

25. Optional deinterlacing of videos, this is controlled by the VideoInterlaceMode= keyword in REDALERT.INI under the [Options] section, if set to 2 videos are deinterlaced, if set to 0 they're horizontally interlaced and when set to 1 they're supposed to be vertically interlaced (though the vertical interlacing doesn't seem to work). The game's previously unknown deinterlacing feature was discovered by AlexB, he also wrote a fix for a bit of graphical glitching at the bottom of the screen.

26. The game no longer requires mpgdll.dll. This DLL was never used and contains MPEG-2 video loading code for a never released Red Alert 1 DVD with higher quality movies.

27. Added a SkipScoreScreen= (yes/no) keyword under [Options] in REDALERT.INI, when set to 'yes' the single player and multiplayer sccore screens won't be shown.

28. It's now possible to have a random starting song start after a map is loaded, the keyword RandomStartingSong= (yes/no) under [Options] in REDALERT.INI controls this.

29. More MIX files are loaded now:

	campaign.MIX
	aftermath.MIX
	counterstrike.MIX
	smallinfantry.MIX
	oos-fix.MIX
	movies-tlf.MIX
	
	germanlanguagepack.MIX
	germancensoredlanguagepack.MIX
	germanuncensoredlanguagepack.MIX
	spanishlanguagepack.MIX
	frenchlanguagepack.MIX
	italianlanguagepack.MIX
		
	expand3.MIX until expand10.MIX (in adition to expand.MIX and expand2.MIX)
	movies-1.MIX until movies-10.MIX
	
30. Fixed a bug where Skirmish menu nick name/colour/side settings aren't saved when you modify them, unless you also modify your nick name. (Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)

31. Fixed a bug where LAN menu nick name/colour/side settings aren't saved. You still need to create a new game or join an existing one for these settings to be saved though.

32. Fixed lag when leaving the Network/LAN menu when there are many players in the menu, for example while playing on CnCNet.

33. When first buying a Radar Dome the top of the sidebar will now show the zoomed out map, instead of the zoomed in one. Thanks to Nyerguds for showing me how he did this for his C&C95 patch and giving me pointers for Red ALert.

34. The game will now tell you if you're hosting Aftermath or not when you have the aftermath expansion enabled. If someone without Aftermath joins your online Aftermath game (effectively changing your game into a non-Aftermath game) text will appear making it clear Aftermath is turned "off". This doesn't apply to joining games, as the needed info is only send once the game is started by the host, sadly.. 

35. Added a new RULES.INI keyword RemoveAITechupCheck= (yes/no) under the [AI] section, when set to yes the AI will tech up to Radar Dome and beyond even when there are no Helipads or Airfields on the map. This fix is always enabled in skirmish.

36. Added a keyword FixAIParanoid= (yes/no) under the [AI] section of RULES.INI, when set to yes the Paranoid= setting will be fixed. This Paranoid= setting controls whether all the AI should ally amongst themselves to fight you when one player is defeated. Paranoid=yes enables this, but this was broken in patch 3.03. This fix is always enabled in skirmish.

37. Added a keyword FixAIAlly= (yes/no) under the [AI] section of RULES.INI, when set to yes you can ally with AI players. This fix is always enabled in skirmish.

38. Optional fix for the formation exploit, the slowest unit speed is used now as formation speed when this fix is enabled. The RULES.INI keyword FixFormationSpeed= (yes/no) keyword under the [General] section controls whether this fix is on or off, it's off when this keyword is missing. This fix is applied by default for skirmish and single player, but not online to stay compatible with 3.03 online. (Taken from Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)

39. The game will no longer delete conquer.eng if it's inside the game folder. (Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)

40. Fix for green shadow issue on units like the Phase Transport. (Taken from Arda.dll.inj by AlexB)

41. Fix for projectile off map crash (code from hifi, original fix by AlexB)

42. Fix for savegame loading with high resolution, when you save a game the positioning info of a bunch of sidebar elements is saved and they are loaded when you load the save game. I have no idea why Westwood made the game save and load the positioning of sidebar elements. This is fixed now. (Thanks to Nyerguds for giving an explanation how he did this for C&C95)

43. Support for a language pack system, the game's language is decided by the GameLanguage= keyword under the [Options] section of redalert.ini. This option determines whether a corresponding mix file for the language should be loaded, there's these following values:

	1: (English)			- No additional .MIX file is loaded
	2: (German)				- germanlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	3: (German censored)	- germancensoredlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	4: (German uncensored)	- germanuncensoredlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	5: (French)				- frenchlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	6: (Spanish)			- spanishlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	7: (Russian)			- russianlanguagepack.MIX is loaded
	
E.g.: GameLanguage=6 to load a Spanish language pack.
	
44. The game will now try to display maps from the expansions even when the expansions aren't enabled.

45. Official non-expansion, Counterstrike, and Aftermath maps display in the multiplayer menus can be enabled/disabled with the following boolean (yes/no) REDALERT.INI [Options] section keywords:

   DisplayOriginalMultiplayerMaps=   ; Whether to display the original 24 multiplayer maps (Load MISSIONS.PKT or not)
   DisplayCounterstrikeMultiplayerMaps=  ; Whether to display Counterstrike multiplayer maps (Load CSTRIKE.PKT or not)
   DisplayAftermathMultiplayerMaps=   ; Whether to display Aftermath multiplayer maps (Load AFTMATH.PKT or not)
   
46. Added a new RULES.INI keyword ParabombsInMultiplayer= (yes/no) under the [General] section, when enabled it will make parabombs available in multiplayer (by default after an Airfield is bought).

47. It is now possible to scroll the sidebar with the mouse wheel. (code written by CCHyper)

48. The Image= keyword now works in a map file, instead of just globally in RULES.INI.

49. Added a new global RULES.INI keyword EvacInMP= (yes/no), when enabled GRNL and Einstein get evacuated if they enter a Chinook in multiplayer. If disabled this doesn't happen. Enabled by default to stay compatible with 3.03 online.

50. Building icons/cameos are now loaded even when a building is TechLevel -1 in RULES.INI under [General]. This fixes an issue where enabling building buildings like the Construction Yard with a map mod still caused the icon/cameo graphics not to be loaded for the structure in the sidebar. This was fixed by patching out a specific check that didn't load these graphics if TecehLevel was equal to -1 on the building. Other objects in the game like infantry use the same loading logic, but without this extra check.

51. Added REDALERT.INI keyword AlternativeRifleSound= (yes/no) under [Options]. If enabled the Rifle Infantry will use an alternative firing sound. MGUNINF1 will be used as firing sound. This overwrites the M1Carbine's Report= setting in RULES.INI.

52. Added REDALERT.INI keyword UseGrenadeThrowingSound= (yes/no) under [Options]. If enabled the Grenadier will have a throwing sound when throwing his grenades. This overrides the Grenade's Report= setting in RULES.INI.

53. Added REDALERT.INI keyword UseBetaTeslaTank= (yes/no) under [Options]. If enabled betateslatank.MIX will be loaded by the game. Likewise UseBetaDestroyer= to load betadestroyer.MIX, UseBetaSubmarine= to load betasubmarine.MIX, UseBetaCruiser= to load betacruiser.MIX, UseBetaGunboat= to load betagunboat.MIX. These options load recreations of beta graphics, the recreation for the beta Tesla Tank was made by Nyerguds, the recreations of naval units were made by Allen262.

54. Fixed a bug with loading movies2.mix. If movies1.mix is found this file wasn't loaded. Now it always is loaded. This affects The First Decade where the Soviet campaign movies (stored in movies2.mix) would never play because TFD Red Alert 1 comes with both MIX files.

55. The game will now try to read ARAZOID.AUD and ARAZIOD.AUD. The game originally would only load ARAZOID.AUD but because the file name is misspelled as 'ARAZIOD.AUD' in the game's data files it was never read and the song didn't work inside the game because of this.

56. The resign hotkey now actually works. There wasn't any code to do anything when the resign hotkey was pressed, even though the game read this hotkey from REDALERT.INI and also put it back in REDALERT.INI.

57. Added a new hotkey to toggle the sidebar on/off. This works like pressing the TAB keyboard key in C&C95. This key can be set with KeySidebarToggle= under [WinHotkeys] in REDALERT.INI.

58. Un-hardcoded the 1-0 keys on the keyboard. The hotkey checking code for handling teams checked both the REDALERT.INI key for the corresponding team and a hard-coded keyboard key for some reason. The checks for hard-coded keyboard keys have been patched out. This essentially allows you to change what the 1-0 keyboard keys are assigned to do, like is possible with the other keyboard keys.

59. Fixed a bug that caused the multiplayer AI to sometimes send tanks to the top left corner of the map. Because this fix desyncs online with 3.03 players it's added as a RULES.INI keyword. The fix is controlled by the keyword FixAISendingTanksTopLeft= (yes/no) under the [AI] section of RULES.INI. This fix is applied by default in skirmish mode.

60. The name of the side the player plays as is no longer prepended to the names of missions in the mission dialogs. Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB for showing me where this prepending is done.

61. Converted the "Counterstrike Missions" menu into a "Custom Missions" one. The "Aftermath Missions" menu has been converted into an "Expansions missions" one. The expansion missions will be displayed in this menu. The custom missions menu displays map files CMU0EA.INI up to CMU999EA.INI. Make sure the custom mission has OneTimeOnly= set to 'Yes' or the game will crash after showing the score screen or glitch up. Make sure the [Basic] section of the map is at the top, or the game might not read it (this happens with all maps).

62. Added a new map keyword TutorialFile= under the [BASIC] section. This keyword can be used to load a custom TUTORIAL.INI file for your map. E.g. "TutorialFile=DERPTUT.INI", to load DERPTUT.INI. If the keyword is missing TUTORIAL.INI is loaded.

63. When the game crashes it will now generate a crashdump file with more possibly useful info that might help determine what caused the crash. (Code by hifi)

64. The game now is forced to run under single CPU affinity set, this is to prevent freezing and random crashes on certain CPUs.

65. Fixed movies and audio lag on certain processors when single CPU affinity is enabled.

66. Fixed ToInherit= map keyword, this keyword will no longer be read in non-single player games.

67. Localisation strings have been changed and applied to the game to help in translation. The following strings have been changed:
	CONQUER.ENG string: 121			Value:	Custom Missions
	CONQUER.ENG string: 120			Value:	Expansions Missions
	CONQUER.ENG string: 119			Value:	The Game is a Draw
	CONQUER.ENG string: 118			Value:	%s has retracted the offer of a draw.
	CONQUER.ENG string: 116			Value:	You have retracted your offer of a draw.
	CONQUER.ENG string: 115			Value:	%s has proposed that the game be declared a draw.
	CONQUER.ENG string: 114			Value:	You have proposed that the game be declared a draw.	
	CONQUER.ENG string: 113			Value:	Are you sure you want to accept a draw?
	CONQUER.ENG string: 112			Value:	Are you sure you want to propose a draw
	CONQUER.ENG string: 111			Value:	Accept Proposed Draw
	CONQUER.ENG string: 110			Value:	Retract Draw Proposal
	CONQUER.ENG string: 109			Value:	Propose a Draw

68. Added support for winter and desert theaters. To use set Theater= to DESERT or WINTER under the [Basic] section of the map. The game will try to load DESERT.MIX and WINTER.MIX. These theaters are converted from C&C95 by Allen262, he also had to adapt them to Red Alert 1. The Desert conversion was based on work by Merri.

69. Changed the "V2 Rocket" string to "V2 Rocket Launcher" when mousing over a V2 Rocket Launcher.

70. Changed the "Invulnerability Device"  string to "Invulnerability", to match the icon text and to make more sense.

71. Replaced the "RA Setup" tool with a custom written, open-source configuration tool (RedAlertConfig.exe). This tool requires the .Net 2.0 framework.

72. Added an open-source launcher program (RedAlertLauncher.exe), This program requires the .Net 2.0 framework.

73. Included CnC-DDraw ( http://hifi.iki.fi/cnc-ddraw/ ) by hifi, which modernizes the game's rendering engine and allows for windowed mode. 

74. Included CnCNet ( http://cncnet.org/ ), which is the de facto standard for playing Red Alert 1 online. As of 2013 there are regularly 120+ people online. The launcher has a button to launch the online lobby for CnCNet. Alternatively to play online you can run 'cncnet.exe'.

73. The files for the game's expansions (excluding music and movies) are included in this patch.

78. Added fixed graphic files for some tiles that would turn into beach tiles when damaged by certain warheads. ("smudge fix")

79. Fixed the automatic sonar pulse (submarine decloak) when a team doesn't have any non-submarines left. This logic was applied to singleplayer too which broke a few missions and added weird behavior on some. The logic is now multiplayer only. (Thanks to Arda.dll.inj by AlexB for showing me where to patch this)

80. The correct bmap.vqa and bmap.vqp files are loaded and included with this patch. The original game and expansions came with different versions of this file and sometimes this would cause the video to play with a glitched palette. This is the "dagger falling on a map of Europe" animation video.

81. Fixed misspelled Missile Silo text on the icon for the building. It was misspelled as "Missle Silo". Fix made by Nyerguds.

82. Added an option to play with smaller sized infantry. The infantry will be sized like in C&C95.

83. Added an option to play with a re-creation of the beta Tesla Tank shown in some old magazine screenshots. The beta Tesla Tank recreation graphics was made by Nyerguds.

84. Fixed the missing shadow for the Demo Truck. (Fix made by AlexB)

85. The sandbags and chainlink fence crush sounds were switched. The chainlink fence now uses the correct crush sound. Because the sandbags crush sound wasn't that fitting it has been replaced with a more fitting unused sound from the game data files.

86. Fixed small graphical glitch on the chainlink fence. (Fix by Nyerguds)

87. Added a fix for the cnc-ddraw bug where the mouse randomly disappears.

88. If you're not running the Aftermath expansion the Supply Truck/Cargo Truck would not have a shadow. The correct graphics with shadows is now always loaded.

89. Fixed a crash while the game is determing what weapon a unit should use against another unit. The game would get an object reference from an object ID for the target unit, but this reference could be invalid (NULL) and the game didn't check for that, which causes a crash. Added a check.

90. Sometimes the casualities number printed for the first side shown in the score screen would use the wrong side's colour. This has been fixed.

91. Fixed a crash while trying to animate part of the score screen.

92. Sometimes the music would stop playing after loading multiple savegames, this has been fixed.

93. Added a fix for a bug where using the Q hotkey with a tank group that includes engineers would sometimes cause the game to freeze. Note that instead of when this bug would normally happen engineers will start moving to the top left of the map unless giving a new move order.

94. Game difficulty will no longer affect game speed in offline games (on top of the normal game speed slider setting).

95. Included a fixed version of Soviet mission 13 variant A (there's two map choices for this mission). The original mission is bugged in that capturing the Chronosphere (which is supposed to be required to win the mission) causes you to lose the game. The B variant of the map works properly. The mission fix was made by Allen262, issue reported by r34ch.

96. The Allies on Soviet Mission 8 variant B produce Flamethrower infantry, even though the Allies can't build them (this is because building prequisites for mission autocreate teams are ignored). This has been fixed and the Allies no longer produce Flamethrower infantry on this map. Fix made by Allen262, issue reported by r34ch.

97. Fixed a glaring misplaced tile just to the west of where the Soviets start in the final Soviet mission (mission 14). Issue reported by r34ch.

98. Added a fix for the Ore Mine foundation. This fix is only applied in single player and skirmish. The problem is that the Ore Mine doesn't spread ore on the cell directly below it because it uses the foundation of the Blossom Tree from C&C1, which has a height of two cells, while the Ore Mine is only one cell. This fix was taken from Arda by AlexB.

99. Added the option to save/load/delete a game during skirmish.

100. Fixed Soviet mission 6 variants A and B so you no longer get APCs at the start of the mission. Fix made by Allen262.

101. Any previous active chrono vortex is now destroyed while loading a map or savegame. Previously chrono vortex would persist in single player missions after (re)starting one. Thanks to djohe for reporting the bug.

102. Added a REDALERT.INI options called "ForceAMUnitsInMissions" under the [Options] section. When enabled missions will always have Aftermath units enabled.

103. The game will now end in skirmish if you have allied AI players. Note that all players you've allied with have to be allied with each other, when allying more than one other player in game this doesn't happen, players you ally will only ally you. So this only works if you ally only one player in skirmish.

104. The "computer paranoid" setting has been forced off in skirmish. To disable this, under the [AI] section of RULES.INI set ComputerParanoidForceDisabledSkirmish=no. This keyword is only read at startup from RULES.INI (aka globally).

105. Added a fix for building crew from certain buildings like the Tesla Coil getting stuck one cell above the buildings foundations. This fix is applied to single player and skirmish, but to remain online compatible with 3.03 it isn't applied online and in LAN. (Fix made with help from CCHyper and code reverse engineered from Arda by AlexB)

106. Fix for an exploit dubbed "magic build". When you're selecting a spot to place a building and white rectangles for the building foundations are showing, indicating that the building is place-able at that spot, even if every close by building of you dies the rectangles for the building foundation stay white, allowing you to still build at that location. In practice when a player is base crawling really quickly and you destroy any of his buildings close to where he wants to place, if the white rectangles are shown he can still place the building (unexpectedly) at that location. If he doesn't yet place the building but moves the mouse instead the rectangles will be red.

This fix is applied to single player and skirmish by default, but not online by default to stay compatible with 3.03 online.

107. Added a fix for an infantry range exploit that allows you to have infantry fire across the map. This fix is applied to skirmish and single player by default, but not online to stay compatible with 3.03. (Fix reverse engineerd from Arda by AlexB)

108. Added a fix for certain invisible explosions that affects certain warheads when shooting buildings. For example this affects the Chrono Tank shooting its missiles at a Construction Yard, the missiles are invisible from most angles. This fix is applied to single player and skirmish, but disabled online to remain 3.03 online compatible. (Fix made by AlexB)

109. When loading a scenario, the game would not reset the current amount of credits shown on the credits tab in the top right of the screen. So if you have 1.4 billion credits then start another scenario, the game would start decrementing the credits count on the top right of the screen back to the actual amount (starting with the previous 1.4 billion credits), usually 10 000 when playing skirmish games. This process could take up to one hour if you start with 1.4 billion credits. This has been fixed and the amount of credits to display will be reset to 0 when a scenario is loaded. This does not affect the actual money you have, just what is displayed.