1. add crc check to oos-fix.ini loading
5. make deinterlacing optional
8. Investigate multiplayer music volume (don't think it's needed?)
11. For the MapIndex Multiplayer defaults code, a check for MapIndex < Items Count needs to be added (just always set mapindex to 1 instead)
12. Restating a mission ingame causes graphical glitching, I think hifi's hires has a fix for it..
14. Complete multiplayer defaults code for LAN menu
15. add PlayEnglishIntro, multiplayer defaults and ShowAllMusic settings to config tool, and the cnc-ddraw vhack option too.
16. Need to ask CCHyper for his video scaling/stretching code.
17. Need to check if new missions dialog still shows when Counterstrike expansion isn't enabled
19. Load map specific tutorial.ini if found else load the normal tutorial.ini file.
20. Finish multiplayer defaults code
21. Just set maplistindex to 1 instead of reading it from an ini, it has too many issues :/
21. Fix any FileClass leaks in the custom mission list ini loading code
22. Song shuffling is broken, the game doesn't play anything after a song ends, without song shuffling the game plays the next song like usual.
23. Briefings are displayed during the campaign, fix?
24. Add Greece, Spain and Turkey to selectable countries in config tool, 0, 1, 7 respectively
25. hires LAN join screen WIP crashes more multiplayer countries
26. cncnet doesn't work with win95 compatibility mode, but this is needed for videos to work smoothly, make a copy of the exe without compatibility mode?
27. add random song starting track feature, big foot is getting a bit tiring..
29. update config tool force single cpu text, should tell you to enable if you experience crashes instead of telling it fixes crashes (it bugs campaign movies and score screen)
30. fix alignment of time remaining tab for missions/maps that use it.
31. Restating a briefing ingame causes graphics glitching around the briefing, need to load blackbackground.pcx before everything else.

33. Add forceAM with fast build speed option to config tool
34. POSSIBLE ISSUE: If you disable the aftermath expansion the Force AM Rules option will be unchecked, but the rules.ini file will stay in your game folder (needs to be deleted)

[19:37:39] <iran> so i was thinking and im gonna include all the expansion maps and your map pack with expansion maps (those .MPR files)
[19:37:52] <iran> then i'll only show the expansion maps .MPR files
[19:38:19] <iran> and add an option to display original maps, counterstrike maps, aftermath maps or not etc
35. Rename expand, expand2, general to counterstrike, aftermath and campaign MIX
[20:51:14] <iran> so yeah better doing what you said funky, if AM enabled use the AM ini maps else use your map pack

29. add deinterlace option to config tool, code already added in patch VideoInterlaceMode in redalert.ini
30. Need to patch the game so score screen is displayed in the top left corner. ScoreClass::Presentation() is used for score screen.

31. There's some glitching on the sidebar in hires, need to compare hifi's hires with mine..